# Overview

Replaces your wallpaper with random art piece. Includes title, artist name and other metadata, as well as description generated by LLM!

Works for Windows only. Intended to run on system startup to replace wallpaper daily.

# Install

There are actually two scripts: one for generating wallpaper, the other is for replacing it. It's done this way for performance reasons. Obviously, generating wallpaper requires some time (image manipulations, calls to APIs etc) and dependencies. Replacing wallpaper on the other hand requires no dependencies at all, it's just a call to Windows API. So to minimize load time, two wallpapers will be generated on the first run, and former one will be set. On next runs, wallpaper-setting script will kick-in changing wallpaper before next one is generating.

**Generation script**:

- Create `.env` file with API key for Claude. See .env.example. Place it in the root folder of this project
- Install dependencies `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Bundle with PyInstaller: `pyinstaller -n "get_wallpaper" --noconsole --onefile --add-data="./.env:." --add-data="data/met_objects.json:data" --add-data="data/NotoSans-Medium.ttf:data"  get_wallpaper.py`
- Place bundled .exe into Startup folder or schedule its run with TaskScheduler

Images are saved into C:/Users/{user}/art_wallpapers. If needed, clean this folder from time to time.

**Wallpaper replacing script**:

- Some global Python is required to run it. If you intend to use virtual environment, modify `set_wallpaper.cmd` to accomodate for this
- Place `set_wallpaper.vbs` into Startup folder or scheduler its run with TaskScheduler. TaskScheduler is recommended for earlier start. Note extension - VBScript file kicks-off the whole thing. This way we avoid CMD terminal poping up on script run

# Credits

- Thanks to Metropolitan Art Museum for provided datasets, images and API! https://metmuseum.github.io/
- Thanks to Victoria and Albert Museum for provided images and API! https://developers.vam.ac.uk/guide/v2/welcome.html
